." manpage for fpman
." contact suve [at] svgames.pl to correct typos and errors
.TH fpman 1 "2015-06-21" "1.2.0" "manpages for free pascal"

.SH NAME
\fBfpman\fR - manpages for Free Pascal

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfpman\fR OPTION | PAGE

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfpman\fR is a documentation tool providing manpages for Free Pascal
by converting HTML files created with \fBfpdoc\fR to troff format, and
storing them in a database in the user's home directory for quick access.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fI--help\fR
Display a summary of available options and exit.
.TP
\fI--list\fR PAGE
Like the default mode of operation, except that instead of firing man, 
prints a summary of each matching page.
.TP
\fI--import\fR=PATH
Import .html or .man files into database. PATH can specify either a file, 
or a directory, in which case it will be scanned recursively for files.
.TP
\fI--purge\fR[=SECTION]
Clean fpman sqlite database and manpage library directory. If SECTION is 
specified, instead of the whole library, only the selected part will 
be purged. SECTION must be in "type:name" format, where type must be 
either "package" or "unit". Unit names can be prefixed with the 
package name, followed by a dot, to avoid ambiguity.
.TP
\fI--rebuild\fR[=SECTION]
Rebuild fpman sqlite database based on files found in the library directory.
SECTION can be used in the same manner as in --purge.
.TP
\fI--revalidate\fR[=SECTION]
For every page listed in the sqlite database, check if its manpage
is present in the library directory. Remove dead entries.
SECTION can be used in the same manner as in --purge.
.TP
\fI--version\fR
Display version information and exit.

.SH USAGE
If no option was specified, the default mode of operation is to take the 
first argument provided to the program and search for a matching manpage.
The ? and * wilcards can be used in the name.

If multiple matching pages are found, the program lists them and asks
which page the user wants to see. If no matches are found, the program
searches for any manpages containing PAGE in their title and prints a
list of similarly named pages.

For object/class/interface methods and properties, 
PAGE must be in TYPE.IDENTIFIER format. 

To avoid ambiguity, PAGE can be prefixed with the unit name, and even
package name, if needed (as in, PACKAGE.UNIT.PAGE).



.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.suve/fpman/pages/\fR
Subdirectory to store all cached manpages.
.TP
\fI~/.suve/fpman/fpman.sqlite\fR
sqlite database to store the list of manpages in.

.SH BUGS
None known at time of release. If you found one, please report it using
the issue tracker on GitHub, or alternatively, by e-mail.

.SH SOURCE CODE
.TP
.B GitHub
Public repository available at https://github.com/suve/fpman
.TP
.B SV Games
Tarball for current stable release available at author's homepage. http://svgames.pl

.SH AUTHOR
suve (suve [at] svgames.pl)
